mmmmmmmm

1646. Fled from Oxford with King (April 27). Re-
turned to London.

1648. Retired to live with Brothers Eliab and Daniel.
Afflicted with gout. The younger Riolan publishes
critique of Harvey’s doctrine of the circulation.
War of the Fronde. Peace of Westphalia, ending
terrible Thirty Years’ War, and acknowledging inde-
pendence of the Netherlands. Sydenham (1624-1689)
made bachelor of medicine at Oxford.

1649. Harvey from Cambridge writes two letters to
Riolan answering the attack on his demonstration.
Execution of Charles I. Cromwell subdues Great

Britain and Ireland.

1650. Visited at Christmas time by his friend Dr.
GeorgenEnss who obtained manuscript of essay on
generation.

1651. Publication of Exercitationes de generatione
animalium. Offered anonymously to build library sor
Royal College of Physicians. Pecquet publishes account
of thoracic duct. Harvey writes to Dr. Paul M.
Slegel, of Hambmg, thanking him for defending his
work against Riolan. Meets John Aubrey, his first
biographer.

1652. Letter to Dr. R. Morison of Paris criticizing
Pecquet's conclusions. Royal College of Physicians
placed bust of Harvey in new library.

1653. First English edition of the De motu cordis.
Parliament disbanded.

1654. Refuses to accept Presidency of Royal College
of Physicians.

1657. Died on June 3. Buried in Hempstead Church.

mmmmmmmm
[ 14 5]

